Narrator: Let's go ahead
and write some music
using variables in EarSketch.
I have the start
of my script here,
"from earsketch import *,"
the init() function,
which starts the new
music project in EarSketch,
the setTempo() function.
And I'm going to slow down
that tempo,
so instead of it being
120 beats per minute,
I'm going to make it
100 beats per minute.
And then I have
the finish() function,
which gets all the music
ready to play
inside of EarSketch.
And it's always at the end
of our script.
So now I'm going
to define a variable.
I'll call it "synth1."
I'll use the equals sign
to assign that variable,
synth1, a value.
The value here is going to be
a constant
from the EarSketch
sound browser.
So I'll pick this
"HIPHOP_SYNTHPLUCKLEAD_005."
And so now I have synth1,
the variable, equals the value,
HIPHOP_SYNTHPLUCKLEAD_005.
So now I want to use
that variable synth1
in my music.
So I'll put in
a fitMedia() function call.
And the sound I'm going
to put in will be
that variable name, synth1,
since that represents
the sound I want to use.
I'll put it on track 1,
starting at measure 1
and ending in measure 2.
Now I can press run
and I can play it.
[synth melody]
So now that I've successfully
used one variable
in my EarSketch script,
I can go ahead
and I can define
a couple of more.
So I can make
one called "synth2"
and assign that
to a different sound
from the sound browser.
I'll use
"HIPHOP_SOLOMOOGLEAD_001."
And I can define
a third variable called "drums."
I'll use the equals sign
to assign that to a drum beat.
Now that I have all of that,
I can put in a bunch
of fitMedia() calls.
And each fitMedia() call
can use one
of those three variables,
either synth1, synth2, or drums.
So you can see
all of my calls here.
I have synth1, synth2,
synth2, synth1, synth2,
synth1, synth2, and drums.
Most of these are on track 1.
They're kind of going
one measure at a time,
so the first one
is from measure 1 to 2,
the next one
from measure 2 to 3,
and so on.
I have a break here
between measure 4 and 5,
but everything else
is filled in.
But then I want my drums
to be on track 2,
so that I hear the drums
throughout the entire song.
So I have fitMedia(drums)
on track 2
going from measure 1
to measure 9.
So I can hit run and hear
what that sounds like now.
[synth hip-hop beat with drums]
So now what if I wanted
to change one of the sounds?
Let's say I wanted
to change my synth1 sound,
my HIPHOP_SYNTHPLUCKLEAD_005,
to change it
to HIPHOP_SYNTHPLUCKLEAD_006.
Maybe that would
sound better in the piece?
Well,
if I weren't using variables,
I'd have to go through
every single fitMedia() call
where I was using synth1
and manually put in
the new sound that I wanted.
But here I can just change
the assignment statement
at the top here,
and then everything below,
every time I use synth1,
it's going to use
the updated sound instead.
So I just changed
that one thing,
and it kind of propagates
through the rest of my code.
[different synth hip-hop beat
with drums]
Now this is important
because it ties
into a very important way
of composing music
called "iterative design."
And when we make music
using iterative design,
we start off with something
that we think might be okay.
We kind of put some ideas down,
make some music.
And then we listen to it,
and we think about
how we can make it better.
And we make changes
to that music.
And then we play it again,
and we listen to it again.
We think about how we can
make it better,
what we can change.
Sometimes we might
make it worse,
so we might want to go back
and kind of undo a change
that we just did.
But the point is
that we rapidly go through
this process
of editing the music,
listening to it,
and making more changes,
until we end with something
that's really awesome
and that we're proud of.
And this notion of variables,
using variables in our scripts,
makes it much easier
to experiment in this way.
Because if you have
a long song that has dozens
of different sounds in it
that are used hundreds of times
through function calls
like fitMedia(),
and you want to change
one of those sounds,
it would take a really long time
to go through all your code,
find every time you're using it
and change it.
But if you can use a variable
so that you can just change it
once in an assignment statement,
then you just have to make
that one tiny change,
run your code again,
and you can very quickly
hear the difference
and decide whether it
makes it better or worse
and what you might want
to do next.